--- Chunk 0 ---
Hey, it's Jenna Bush Hager from Today with Jenna and Friends. And I'm so excited
about our first ever Read with Jenna Book Festival. A weekend of books, food,
and music in the city that knows a good time. Nashville, Tennessee. Join me on
May 30th and 31st at W. Nashville and connect with fellow book lovers, meet the
authors, dive into engaging conversations, pop -up bookshops, immersive
experiences, surprise giveaways, and more. This event is sponsored by Nashville
Music City and you can get your tickets now at today .com slash RWJ Book
Festival. Come celebrate the magic of books in Nashville. I hope to see you
there. Tonight on Dateline. She was so beautiful. Inside and out. So smart. She
might have said it more gently, but I just remember Anita's dead. Everything
kind of stopped. Your mind just goes everywhere like, who could do this? Tyler
Schmaltz was kind of infatuated with her. She kind of friendzoned him pretty
quickly. Yes. Nicole Rice's name came up. I overheard Nicole's mom asking, how
could you think my daughter did this? We were dispatched to a call of someone
entering an apartment. There was a male, he had a knife. There were many
possible suspects. We've been reliving this every single day for 18 years. It's
really scary not knowing how that's going to turn out. A popular college student
murdered a case that dragged on for years. Could revelations during a party
finally solve the mystery? I'm Lester Holt and this is Dateline. Here's Blaine
Alexander with Murder in My Not. The town is mostly quiet now. Just a few stores
line the streets, but ride through this small North Dakota community and you'll
see them. These weather -worn pink ribbons and a faded photograph of a young
woman no one here can forget. Reminders of what this place has been through, of
a mystery that spanned nearly two decades. You talk to police. All the time. All
the time. For the whole 18 years. This story is about a young student, a way at
college, killed in her own bedroom, and about the family and friends who never
stopped pressing for answers. We're not forgetting about this. We weren't going
to give up. She wouldn't have. We weren't going to. Tell me about... Butte,
North Dakota. Butte is a tiny little town. It's, I mean, when you say tiny,
eight streets, eight streets, eight streets, 50 people, tiny, tiny, tiny. Yeah.
It's where Anna Knutson spent much of her late childhood, raised with her
brother Daniel and their older sister, Anita. What was it like living there in a
place that small? Quiet. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's kind of all I can say. It's
so quiet. My dad was a mayor for 12 years in Butte. My friends would come over
and have sleepovers and like my dad the mayor would wake us up to go like hang
up the holiday decorations on Main Street. Like it wasn't that fun. That's what
you do when you're the mayor's kids. Yeah, yeah. Anna's big sister Anita left
for college in

--- Chunk 1 ---
nearby Minot, a bustling big city by North Dakota standards. Anita's aunt, Karen
Lear, lived there too. How excited was she for college? Very much so. And she
also worked a couple jobs up here in Minot too. Some of the weekends she would
go back to Butte and help her mom in the store. She and my mom talked every
single day on the phone. Even when she went to college? Yeah, even when she went
to college. She was always calling my mom. She was such a hard worker, but she
still made time for her friend and for her family. So when Anita's family didn't
hear from her one weekend in June 2007, they figured she was at work, at least
at first. Saturday passed, then Sunday. Was it out of character for them to not
hear from Anita? Very much so, absolutely. By Monday, with no word from Anita,
her dad Gordon made the hour -long drive to his daughter's apartment to check on
her. When he peered through Anita's window, he saw her lying face down in her
bed. The apartment manager led him inside and immediately called 911. Right
away, Anita's dad called his sister, Karen. When she arrived, police were
already on the scene. So you drive up to the apartment and the only thing that
you know is that she's gone. I can't imagine Karen him coming to check on Anita
and being the one to discover that she had been killed. When you got there and
saw him, how was he? Oh, in shock. I mean, it's just something you never, ever
can prepare yourself for. Karen stayed on the scene as Gordon left to break the
news to his wife and the rest of the family. You know, he's waiting for more
information from the detectives, and yet he knows he needs to go back to Butte
and talk to Sharon and the other two kids. So he stayed for a while, but then he
knew he had to leave and go do that. He stayed. I wouldn't leave. What made you
stay? I couldn't leave. We had to stay there for her. You felt you were being
there for her. Had to be there. She knew in that instant, everything had
changed. From that day on, when it got to be dark, the doors were definitely
locked, the shades were pulled. And the mystery of who killed Anita was only
just beginning. Somebody is there, kind of in her face, holding the knife to her
neck. It was scary, I mean, because anybody and everybody is a suspect to me. If
there's a chance that you crawled in the window and killed this girl. No, I
can't, bro. That's my order, man. It was pressure from a TV show. They put an
incredible amount of pressure to bring charges in this case. David Goodman. A
newly minted detective with the Minot Police Department had a lot to think about
as he made his way to the apartment where Anita Knutson was murdered.

--- Chunk 2 ---
unexplained death of a promising young college student was virtually unheard of
in Minot, North Dakota. So as you're on your way there, what are you thinking? I
was new to investigations, kind of wondered what direction we'd go in and are we
going to solve this right away? Is it going to be difficult? On that early
evening in June, Sergeant Goodman knew very little when he arrived at Anita's
apartment. So when you got here to the scene that day, what did you see? I
believe they had police tape up already. The crime scene van was parked on the
grass right out in front of the door and detectives were inside the apartment.
Is that the front door right there? Yes, that's the front and only door going
into apartment number five. The bedroom window caught his eye. What did you
notice about her window? I noticed that the screen was gone. An important
detail? That remained to be seen. As police began processing the crime scene,
Anita's father, Gordon, had begun the grim duty of telling his family. Anita's
15 -year -old sister, Anna, got the news from her brother. Daniel comes to pick
me up, and I get in the car, and I could tell he'd been crying. Like, something
was very wrong, and I was like, well, what's going on? And he's like, and I
can't tell you. Finally, he spoke the words. Anita was dead. This is, of course,
my first time with any type of grief at this level. But I learned about myself
in that moment. Like, I don't want people around. I don't want people coming in
to ask me if I'm OK every five seconds, especially people that don't know me.
Daniel was also taking it hard. I understand that Daniel and Anita had a very
special relationship. They did. They were very close. Gordon and his wife Sharon
adopted the three siblings when they were all very young. They spent their early
childhood in sunny Southern California. It was a fun little childhood, yeah.
Lauren Lessig and Anita became forever friends in kindergarten. What was it
about Anita that just really drew you to her? She was just positive and happy
and just the best. I mean, she always did what was right. She never, like,
wavered in that. Then, when Anita was almost 14, Gordon decided to move the
family up North to his hometown of Butte. One day, your dad comes in and says,
we're moving to North Dakota. Yeah, Southern California is such, it's obviously
very different than North Central and North Dakota, for sure. For Anita, I think
it was really hard. I mean, friendship was so important to her and and leaving
all of her friends behind and I mean she was it was a tough age too. I mean we
went from being you know like being in a school where lots of kids look like us
to being in a school where we're the only three black and brown kids there is
pretty jarring to say the least. How did she overcome that? You know I think for
Anita she was always good with challenges like she there's really nothing that
she couldn't make it through. What was your first impression of Anita? Just a
teeny tiny little ball of energy and sunshine. Amber Nix met Anita when they
were freshmen in high school. Even at that young age, she thought Anita was
perfectly put together. Matching clothes, matching shoes to her clothes, bows in
her hair that matched, her purse matched, and pink was her color. She was a pink
kind of girl. She was. Anita was always moving. school, hanging out with
friends, dancing. She joined a future business leaders club. And here she is
doing a weather report for a class project.

--- Chunk 3 ---
This is Anita Knudsen reporting live from Havana, Dakota. There is a ginormous
tornado coming towards us in the southeast. It is getting kind of bad. Larissa
Rao loved Anita's can -do generous spirit. She literally became friends with
anybody. Like, she always went towards the people that probably never would have
a lot of friends. So she always... you know, try to be friends with everybody.
After high school, it was on to college in Minot, about an hour from Butte. She
wanted to be a teacher and she loved kids. Kids loved her. So she majored in
elementary education at Minot State. After a semester in the dorms, Anita and
one of her roommates, Nicole Thomas, decided to move off campus. I think they
just wanted to have their own space. So then they were both Like, let's just get
an apartment together, so they did. Anita's apartment had become a crime scene.
Those who knew and loved her gathered outside brimming with questions for
police. And police would have questions for some of them about Anita, her life,
and the people who surrounded her. She got any guys or anything that she's
interested in or that are interested in her? I don't know. She was going to
jail, so... Do you have a simple person's signature or a small one? Wait, did
you say no? How can you type, or start, or register your own signature? Many
words mean the same. But you can also start AS or simple person's signature on
Fikken N .O. Fikken, start signature, super simple. Hey, everyone. I'm Jenna
Bushhager from The Today Show, and I'm excited to share my podcast, Open Book
with Jenna. It is back for season two. Each week, celebrities, experts, friends,
and authors will share candid stories with me about their lives and new
projects. Guests like Rebecca Yarrows, Kristen Hannah, Ego Wodum, and more. Like
a good book, you'll leave feeling inspired and entertained. Join me for my
podcast, Open Book with Jenna. Listen now on Apple Podcasts. Every morning
brings a fresh new energy. This is today. And no matter what the day holds, we
come to the Today Show for all of it. When things are tough, we talk about it.
When there's something to figure out, we dig into it. And when there's joy, we
celebrate it. Because today is where it's all happening. We get the best start
to every morning because we start it together. Watch the Today Show with
Savannah Guthrie and Craig Melvin weekdays at 7 a .m. on NBC. The quiet
apartment complex where Anita Knudsen lived was now a tangle of police activity
and crime scene tape. What did you need to know about this apartment? Just the
layout, how many bedrooms it was, who all lived in the apartment, what was out
of place. There, in a bedroom, clothed in a pink bathrobe, He saw Anita's body
still on the bed. I could see that she was kind of flopped over laying on her
stomach. I noticed her room seemed to be in order. So it didn't seem like there
had been a struggle. No. There did not seem to be a struggle at all. I had also
looked around her bedroom and I noticed that her purse was there. I could see
that there was cash in her purse. So I didn't feel like it had been any sort of
a burglary or a robbery. gone bad type of situation. They moved Anita's body to
the floor. We could see that she had a stab wound to her.

--- Chunk 4 ---
right chest area and also a stab wound to her sternum area. And then we also
noticed on the mattress that there was a five to six inch circle of blood where
blood had drained from her body and soaked into the mattress. Anita had been
stabbed in the heart and the evidence suggested she was killed Sunday, the day
before. Then, right by Anita's bed, investigators made a key discovery. A knife
with a distinctive tribal insignia on one side. There was blood on the blade,
and testing would confirm it was Anita's. Investigators gathered more evidence,
like the missing screen from Anita's window. The maintenance man said he had
taken it to be repaired earlier that day. It had been slashed. It appeared that
somebody had used a knife and cut kind of a backwards L, cut into the screen. Is
that how the killer got in? Or did someone come through the apartment door? That
door was locked when Anita's father tried to enter, so if someone came in that
way, they would need a key. This wasn't a sort of lock that you could maybe pick
or get in from another way. You needed an actual key. You needed a key, yes. A
key to unlock the door and relock it on departure. Four people had keys to the
apartment. Anita, her roommate Nicole, The manager and that maintenance man,
Marty and Nell, police spoke with him that first night. Into the same room where
Anita laid dead. He said he didn't look in, but he did call out. No answer. Just
in those first initial hours, was he ever a person of interest for you? He was a
person of interest of just knowing that he had knowledge of what was going on
there or what happened there. So, of course, the maintenance guy would have
access to keys. Something to consider as police dove into the investigation. Are
you learning more about Anita while you're there at the scene? Yes, we learned
that she lived there with another girl. Anita's roommate, Nicole Thomas, was at
work when police asked her to come to her apartment, now a crime scene. She said
she'd been away most of the weekend at her parents' home. She was in tears when
they asked her about Anita. She got any guys or anything that she's interested
in or that are interested in her? I don't know. She was a gorgeous girl, so a
lot of guys were interested. They talked to Nicole one more time that night and
she mentioned a dance club that Anita liked. When you talk to people here,
especially the people who were in the same building, what are they telling you?
Did they hear anything? See anything? For the most part, nobody really saw or
heard anything during the time frame that we believe the homicide occurred. And
no one in the complex seemed to know Anita all that well. No one

--- Chunk 5 ---
except an old high school friend, 20 -year -old Tyler Schmaltz, who had an
apartment close by. Police found him hanging around outside Anita's apartment
that evening. Like everyone there, he said he was just trying to find out what
happened to her. He told police he had recently spoken with Anita, so they
questioned him in the crime van. Tyler took Anita to prom when she was new to
high school. They had stayed close for years. Police would have more questions
for Tyler down the road. But at that moment, they got busy bagging evidence.
Anita's hair, clothing items, and a pink sheet from her bed to send out for
testing. As they did, the story of a well -liked young college student killed in
her own bedroom was becoming big news. There are no suspects at this time as
police continue to canvass the neighborhood to find out if anyone knows more
details. There was one person who might. Sergeant Goodman found his name on
Anita's cell phone. On the last night of her life, she had been texting with a
man named Michael Vann, right before she was killed. So who was Michael Vann?
Well, I guess the million -dollar question is here. Who's on our server? I don't
know anybody on our server. As the news of 18 -year -old Anita Knudson's murder
spilled into the city of Minot, the fear was palpable. Police arrived at the
scene shortly after 5 p .m. yesterday and found Knudson in her bedroom. It
appears at this time that her death was caused by an unknown intruder. I want to
ask you, just from the very beginning, when this first happened, how major was
this news? Wow, it was huge news. Kim Fundingsland was born and raised in Minot.
He covered Anita's case, first for the local TV station and later for the Mynot
Daily News. So it was monstrous news. The whole community was mesmerized by the
story and riveted to it. While some were riveted, Anita's family and friends
were frozen in place. Was this a scary time for you? Definitely. For us living
in Mynot, what we think is a safe community and who really cares if your doors
are locked or not. From that day on, the doors were definitely locked. When it
got to be dark, the shades were pulled. I felt like for a long time, and I still
am, I'm very hyper aware of where I'm at, who's around. People were worried. I
mean, it's just that's the way it was. Meanwhile, investigators began piecing
together a picture of what happened in Anita's final moments. Looking through
her phone, you saw some text messages that caught your eye. Yeah, she had been
texting Michael Van into the late night, early morning hours of Sunday, June
3rd, and he appeared to be the last one to have any sort of a conversation with
her. Police wanted to talk to him about that. Michael. You came down here,
obviously you heard the news about what occurred, is that correct? And you want
to talk about Anita Knudson who you said was a friend of yours, is that correct?
24 year old Michael Van had been a military brat his entire life, but settled
for a while in North Dakota.

--- Chunk 6 ---
He told police that texting Anita late at night was nothing unusual. He worked
at a local Wendy's, and their schedules rarely aligned. We always texted back
and forth, because I worked normally day, and I worked from the morning until
the evening, and she worked from the evening until late at night, usually. And
we were always trying to talk to each other, but we were never on top of the
schedules. So when she would get off, I would text tag. And while they regularly
texted, he told police it had been a while since he'd actually seen Anita. Anita
and Michael often ran into one another at a local downtown dance club where he
said Anita never met a stranger. A few days after Anita's murder, Michael
visited Minot PD for a second interview. Police drilled down into his
relationship with her. Michael and Anita's texts in the early morning hours of
Sunday, June 3rd ranged from the mundane, to the personal. Anita's final text
messages with Mike were just before 5 a .m. She asked about his past
relationships. Anita wrote, That's a huge, life -altering thing. He responded,
Investigators pressed Mike further. Michael said he had been texting Anita from
a friend's house and he stayed there the rest of the night. Police told Michael
he was free to go, for now. Two days after Anita's murder, the medical examiner
released the autopsy report. Was there any sexual assault? There was nothing
that we could see that would indicate that she was sexually assaulted. It was
definitely something that we were concerned about and it was on our minds. But
the autopsy did reveal something that piqued their interest. We found out that
there was superficial cuts or marks on Anita's neck. So it led us to believe
that somebody is there kind of in her face holding the knife to her neck and
then angry and then that just escalated to the point of stabbing her. When you
think about those details, does that sound like? Possibly someone she knew,
complete stranger. We felt like it was somebody that she knew. And as Minot
police continued talking to those close to Anita, they got a promising tip. We
did have one witness come forward and say that she saw somebody running early
that morning. It was a man running near Anita's apartment. He appeared to be in
his late teens.

--- Chunk 7 ---
or early 20s, about six to 200 pounds with dark hair. And there was something
more. The witness said there was a stain on his shirt, possibly blood. It was
their first big lead. Now they needed to find the running man. Maybe it's
running away from a crime scene. That's what she thought it could be. About two
days after Anita Knudsen's murder, police were chasing a new tip. A woman said
she saw a young, dark -haired man running right near Anita's apartment around
the time of the murder. And he looked like he was in a big hurry. So she's
thinking maybe it's not running out for exercise, maybe it's running away from a
crime scene. That's what she thought it could be. Might Not Police released the
Running Man description to the media And it did generate some tips, but none of
them went anywhere. Back in Anita's hometown of Butte, her presence was
everywhere. And on one particular day, her friends honored her with a brilliant
burst of light in true Anita style. There was an outpouring of love in Butte
after Anita died. Leading up to the funeral a lot of us girls had gotten
together and we made bracelets and pins and Decorated Main Street with pink
ribbons. I mean that it's such a close -knit community. It's really amazing All
over town there's all these little pink ribbons tied up You could drive by and
it wouldn't be weird to see like a pink bow tied to a light post type of thing
When Anita's friend Lauren arrived from California, she was blown away. I
remember the entire town was pink every storefront, car, light post. Everything
had a pink bow on it. We will miss you, Anita, written in pink marker.
Everywhere, everywhere you drove, there was just pink everywhere. Were you
surprised to see the whole town just painted pink for her? Yeah. I was from
Southern California, so everybody doesn't know everybody. So coming out here,
it's definitely a smaller town and everybody was affected out here just because
everybody knows each other. And on the day of the funeral, the entire community
gathered to say goodbye. What stands out to you the most about her funeral? I
think just how many people were there to celebrate my sister. I mean, she truly
was so well loved. I mean, the whole church was full. They ended up having to
open up the gym at the school for all of the overflow people. And they watched
it like on a stream. Did you speak that day? I did, yeah. I got up there and
just said a few words about my sister and just talked about how just
effervescent she was and beautiful and perfect really. I think I wore one of
Anita's dresses to her funeral. To her funeral? Yeah. Was that a way of feeling
close to her? Yeah, yeah. But in the midst of the grief, there were suspicions,
rumors about who could be involved in Anita's murder. At the time, did you
remember any whispers about who it could have been? Yeah, I mean tons of
whispers all the time. That's, you know, people never stop whispering. But yeah,
constant, you know, Nicole's name, of course, has always been, never not been in
the mix. Police had also been hearing things about Anita's roommate, Nicole. We
learned that they had kind of a poor relationship, that there was

--- Chunk 8 ---
minor fights and some arguing between the two of them. They had roommate drama.
They did, yes. Police were there at the funeral, watching from their car as
mourners arrived. At the same time, they asked Nicole to come in for another
interview later that day, a move that may not have sat well with her mother.
Anita's friends remember a painful exchange between Anita's mom and Nicole's.
And I overheard Nicole's mom asking her rather aggressively, like, how could you
think my daughter did this? I can't believe that this is the rumor going around.
I'm paraphrasing, of course, because I can't remember the exact words, but
something to the effect of, you know, I can't believe that people are blaming my
daughter for this. This is all happening at the funeral. Yes, before the actual
funeral started, yeah. I, like, turned around and, like, it was just wild. It
was just wild behavior for an adult. But the dust settled and the memorial moved
on. And a very close friend took over, Tyler Schmaltz, the young man on the
scene that first night. He was now in the middle of Anita's goodbye. We made a
slideshow for her parents. What kind of pictures did you want to pick of Anita?
The prom ones where she's dancing, where she's with friends and family. Just her
living her life. He also took it upon himself to arrange a send -off with pink
balloons. Through it all, police wondered if the killer was among the mourners
and they had some very particular questions for that close friend, Tyler
Schmaltz. Three days after the funeral, Tyler found himself once again talking
with police. Did you have anybody that you thought that you suspected at the
time back then Tyler. Now they had the final answer or did they? Nothing has more
suspense than a date line mystery and no one wants to wait to find out what
happens next That's why everyone needs date line premium where listening is
always ad -free You get the whole story and nothing but the story or do you?
Yes, actually, you do. Subscribe now on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or Dateline
Premium .com. Mayor, will I be able to drop into multiplayer gaming battles with
low lag? The lag won't be an issue, but your questionable skills may be. And
what if I have hundreds of devices on the Wi -Fi? Purely hypothetical. Seems
like a lot. But sure, hundreds of devices all booming together with the Xfinity
Gateway. Yes, friends and neighbors, with Xfinity, the Wi -Fi is booming!
Restrictions apply. Hey, everybody. I'm Al Roker from The Today Show. Let's
kickstart your wellness journey with the all -new start today app. Everything
you need for a healthier you, all in one place. Fitness challenges for all
levels. Meal plans that are easy and delicious and so much more. It's built to
fit your lifestyle and our experts will guide you every step of the way. Come
on, let's do this. To subscribe, download Star Today from the App Store on your
Apple device now. Terms of fly cancel anytime through Apple under profile
settings.

