--- Chunk 0 ---
Hey, it's Chin and Bush Hager from today with Chin and Friends. And I'm so
excited about our first ever weed with Chin and book festival. A weekend of
books, food and music and a city that knows a good time. Nashville, Tennessee.
Join me on May 30th and 31st at W Nashville and connect with fellow booklovers,
meet the authors, dive into engaging conversations, pop up bookshops, immersive
experiences, surprise giveaways, and more. This event is sponsored by Nashville
Music City and you can get your tickets now at today .com slash RWJ Book
Festival. Come celebrate the magic of books and Nashville. I hope to see you
there. Insignan out. So smart. She might have said it more gently, but I just
remember Anita's dead. Everything got a stop. Your mind just goes everywhere
like who could do this. Tyler Schmaltz was kind of infatuated with her. She kind
of frenzoned him pretty quickly. Yes. Nicole Rice's name came up. I overheard
Nicole's mom asking, how could you think my daughter did this? We were
dispatched to a call of someone entering an apartment. There was a male. He had
a knife. There were many possible suspects. If someone told you that apartment,
you said you killed him. You didn't even lie. We've been reliving this, every
single day, for 18 years. It's really scary not knowing how that's going to turn
out. A popular college student murdered a case that dragged on for years. Good
revelations during a party finally solved the mystery. I'm Lester Holt and this
is Dave Lyme. Here's Blaine Alexander with Murder in Minacht. The town is mostly
quiet now. Just a few stores line the streets, but ride through this small North
Dakota community, and you'll see them. These weather -worn pink ribbons, and a
faded photograph of a young woman, no one here can forget. Reminders of what
this place has been through, of a mystery that spanned nearly two decades. You
talked to police all the time all the time for the whole 18 years. This story is
about a young student, a way it college killed in her own bedroom and about the
family and friends who never stopped pressing for answers. We're not forgetting
about this. We weren't gonna give up. She wouldn't have. We weren't going to.
Tell me about Beautiful North Dakota. Beautiful is a tiny little town. It's, I
mean, when you say tiny eight streets. Eight streets. Eight streets. Eight
streets. Fifty people. Tiny tiny. Yeah. It's where Anna Kenutsan spent much of
her late childhood raised with her brother Daniel and their older sister Anita.
What was it like living there in a place that small? Quiet? Yeah. Yeah. I think
that's kind of all I can say. It's so quiet. My dad was a mayor for 12 years and
my friends would come over and have sleepovers and like my dad, the mayor would
wake us up to go like hang up the holiday decorations on Main Street. Like it
wasn't that fun. That's what you do when you're the mayor's kids. Yes, yes.
Anna's big sister Anita left for college and

--- Chunk 1 ---
Nearby Minot, a bustling big city by North Dakota standards. A need is on, Karen
Lear lived there too. How excited was she for college? Very much so. And, you
know, she also worked a couple jobs up here in Minot too. Some of the weekends
she would go back to Bute and help her mom in the store. She and my mom talked
like every single day on the phone. Even when she went to college. Yeah, even
when she went to college, she was always, yeah, calling my mom. She was such a
hard worker, but she still made time for her friend and for her family. So when
Anita's family didn't hear from her one weekend in June 2007, they figured she
was at work, at least, at first. Saturday passed, then, Sunday. Was it out of
character for them to not hear from Anita? Very much so, absolutely. By Monday,
with no word from Anita, her dad Gordon made the hour -long drive to his
daughter's apartment to check on her. When he peered through Anita's window, he
saw her lying face down in her bed. The apartment manager let him inside and
immediately called 911. Right away, Anita's dad called his sister, Karen. He
said, you've got to come here. He must have said she's dead. When she arrived,
police were already on the scene. So you drive up to the apartment and the only
thing that you know is that she's gone. Anita's gone. Right. I can't imagine
Karen, him coming to check on Nina, and being the one to discover that she had
been killed. When you got there and saw him, how was he? Oh, in shock. I mean,
it's just something you never ever can prepare yourself for. Karen stayed on the
scene as Gordon left to break the news to his wife and the rest of the family.
You know, he's... waiting for more information from the detectives and yet he
knows he needs to go back to build and talk to Sharon and the other two kids. So
he stayed for a while but then he knew he had to leave and co -do that and he
stayed. I wouldn't leave. What made you stay? Couldn't leave. We had to stay
there for her. You felt you were being there for her. Had to be there. She knew
when that instant everything had changed. From that day on, when it got to be
dark, the doors were definitely locked, the shades were pulled. And the mystery
of who killed Anita was only just beginning. Somebody is there kind of in her
face holding the knife to her neck. It was scary, I mean, because anybody in
everybody is a suspect to me. As soon as the chance that he crawled into the
window and killed the girl, he was like, I can't breath, I can't breath, I can't
smell your man. It was pressure from a TV show. They put an incredible amount of
pressure to bring charges in this case. David Goodman Unnually minted detective
with the Minot Police Department had a lot to think about as he made his way to
the apartment where Anita Connutz and was murdered.

--- Chunk 2 ---
unexplained death of a promising young college student was virtually unheard of
in my not North Dakota. So as you're on your way there, what are you thinking? I
was new to investigations, kind of wondered what direction we'd go in and are we
going to solve this right away? Is it going to be difficult? On that early
evening in June, Sergeant Goodman knew very little when he arrived at Anita's
apartment. So when you got here to the scene that day, what did you see? I
believe they had to please tape up already. The crime scene van was parked on
the grass right out front of the door and detectives were inside the apartment.
Is that the front door right there? That's the front and only door going into a
apartment number five. The bedroom window caught his eye. What did you notice
about her window? I noticed that the screen was gone. An important detail. That
remained to be seen. As police began processing the crime scene, Anita's father,
Gordon, had begun the grim duty of telling his family. Anita's 15 -year -old
sister Anna got the news from her brother. Finally, he spoke the words. Anita
was dead. This is, of course, my first time with any type of grief at this
level. But I learned about myself in that moment, like I don't want people
around. I don't want people coming in to ask me if I'm okay every five seconds,
especially people that don't know me. Daniel was also taking it hard. I
understand that Daniel and Anita have a very special relationship. They did. Mm
-hmm. They were very close. Gordon and his wife Sharon adopted the three
siblings when they were all very young. They spent their early childhood in
sunny southern California. It was a fun little childhood, yeah. Lauren Leslie,
again Anita, became forever friends in kindergarten. What was it about Anita
that just really drew you to her? She was just positive and happy and just...
The best. I mean, she always did what was right. She never, like, wavered in
that. Then when Anita was almost 14, Gordon decided to move the family up north
to his hometown of Butte. One day, your dad comes in and says, moving to North
Dakota. Yeah, something California is such it's obviously very different than
North Central North Dakota for sure. For Anita, I think it was really hard. I
mean, friendship was so important to her and leaving all of her friends behind.
And I mean, she was a tough age too. I mean, we went from being, you know, like
being in a school where lots of kids looked like us to being in a school where
we're the only three black and brown kids there is pretty jarring to say at
least. How did she overcome that? You know, I think for Anita, she was always
good with challenges. Like, there was really nothing that she couldn't make it
through. What was your first impression of Anita? Just like teeny, tiny little
ball of energy and sunshine. Amber Nix met Anita when they were freshman in high
school. Even at that young age, she thought Anita was perfectly put together.
Matching clothes, matching shoes to her clothes, bows in her hair that matched
her purse matched and pink was her color. She was a pink kind of girl, she was.
Anita was always moving. school hanging out with friends dancing she joined a
future business leaders club and here she is doing a weather report for a class
project

--- Chunk 3 ---
This is Anita Kruitsin reporting live from COVID -19 Dakota. There's a ginormous
tornado coming from the southeast. It is getting kind of bad. Larissa Rao loved.
Anita's can do generous spirit. She literally became friends with anybody. Like
she always, like, went towards the people that probably never would have a lot
of friends. So she always, You know, try to be friends with everybody. After
high school, it was on to college and my not about an hour from but. She wanted
to be a teacher and she loved kids, kids loved her. So she majored in elementary
education at my not state. After a semester in the dorms, Anita and one of her
roommates, Nicole Thomas, decided to move off campus. I think they just wanted
to have their own space so then they were both. like Lesis get an apartment
together so they did. Anita's apartment had become a crime scene. Those who knew
and loved her gathered outside, brimming with questions for police. And police
would have questions for some of them about Anita, her life, and the people who
surrounded her. She got any dyes or anything that she's interested in over there
interested in her. Alright, she's going to go so. He had a great time with
Steve. He had a great time with English people. He had a great time with Steve.
He had a great time with Steve. Hey everyone, I'm Jenna Bush Hager from the
Today Show, and I'm excited to share my podcast Open Book with Jenna. It is back
for Season 2. Each week's Celebrities, experts, friends, and authors will share
candid stories with me about their lives and new projects. Guest, like, we're
back for Yarros. Kristen Hannah, I go Wotem, and more. Like a good book, you'll
leave feeling inspired and entertained. Join me for my podcast Open Book with
Jenna. Listen now on Apple Podcasts. Every morning brings a fresh new energy.
This is today. And no matter what the day holds, we come to the today show for
all of it. When things are tough, we talk about it. When there's something to
figure out, we dig into it. And when there's joy, we celebrate it. Because today
is where it's all happening. We get the best start to every morning because we
start it together. Watch today show with Savannah Guthrie and Craig Melvin,
weekdays at 7am on NBC. The quiet apartment complex where I need a canoe to live
was now a tangle of police activity and crime scene tape. What did you need to
know about this apartment? Just the layout, how many bedrooms it was who I lived
in the apartment? What was out of place? There, in a bedroom, clothed in a pink
bathrobe, He saw Anita's body still on the bed. I could see that she was kind of
flopped over laying on her stomach. I noticed her room seemed to be in order. So
it didn't seem like there had been a struggle. No. There did not seem to be a
struggle at all. I had also looked around her bedroom and I noticed that her
purse was there. I could see that there was cash in her purse. So I didn't feel
like it had been any sort of a burglary or a robbery. gone bad type of
situation. They moved in need as body to the floor. We could see that she had a
stab wound to her.

--- Chunk 4 ---
and also a stab wound to her sternum area. And then we also noticed on the
mattress that there was a five to six inch circle of blood where blood had
drained from her body and soaked into the mattress. Anita had been stabbed in
the heart and the evidence suggested she was killed Sunday the day before. Then
right by Anita's bed, investigators made a key discovery. A knife with a
distinctive tribal insignia on one side. There was blood on the blade and
testing with confirm it was a needas. Investigators gathered more evidence, like
the missing screen from a needas window. The maintenance man said he had taken
it to be repaired earlier that day. It had been slashed. It appeared that
somebody had used a knife and cut kind of a backwards L. Cut into the screen. Is
that how the killer got in? Or did someone come through the apartment door? That
door was locked when Anita's father tried to enter, so if someone came in that
way, they would need a key. This was on a sort of lock that you could maybe pick
or get in from another way you needed an actual key. A key to unlock the door
and re -lock it on departure. Four people had keys to the apartment, Anita, her
roommate Nicole The manager, and that maintenance man, Marty and now. Police
spoke with him that first night. Into the same room where Anita laid dead. He
said he didn't look in, but he did call out. No answer. Just in those first
initial hours, was he ever a person of interest for you? He was a person of
interest of just knowing that he had knowledge of what was going on there or
what happened there. So, of course, the maintenance guy would have access to
keys. Something to consider as police dove into the investigation. Are you
learning more about Anita while you're there at the scene? Yes, we learn that
she lived there with another girl. Anita's roommate, Nicole Thomas, was at work
when police asked her to come to her apartment. Now, a crime scene. She said
she'd been away most of the weekend at her parent's home. She was in tears when
they asked her about Anita. They talked to Nicole one more time that night, and
she mentioned a dance club that Anita liked. When you talk to people here,
especially the people who were in the same building, what are they telling you?
Do they hear anything? See anything? For the most part, nobody really saw or
heard anything during the time frame that we believe the homicide occurred. And
no one in the complex seems to know Anita all that well. No one

--- Chunk 5 ---
except an old high school friend, 20 -year -old Tyler Schmolz, who had an
apartment close by. Police found him hanging around outside Anita's apartment
that evening. Like everyone there, he said he was just trying to find out what
happened to her. He told police he had recently spoken with Anita, so they
questioned him in the crime van. Everything was going okay for her. She told me
if your college didn't. Yes. Are you going to college? Yes. See, it's your
college as well. It's occasionally socially. Yes. Tyler took Anita to prom when
she was new to high school. They had stayed close for years. Oh, we all knew
that he had a crush on her. Everyone knew it, but just didn't bother anybody.
Police would have more questions for Tyler down the road. But at that moment,
they got busy bagging evidence. Anita's hair, clothing items, and a pink sheet
from her bed to send out her testing. As they did, the story of a well -liked
young college student, killed in her own bedroom, was becoming big news. There
are no suspects at this time as please continue to canvas the neighborhood to
find out if anyone knows more details. There was one person who might, Sergeant
Goodman, found his name on Anita's cell phone. On the last night of her life,
she had been texting with a man named Michael Van, right before she was killed.
So who was Michael Van? As the news of 18 -year -old Anita Knutson's murder
spilled into the city of Maynott, the fear was palpable. Police arrived at the
scene shortly after 5 p .m. yesterday and found Knutson in her bedroom. It
appears at this time that her death was caused by an unknown intruder. I want to
ask you just from the very beginning, when this first happened, how major was
this news? Wow, it was huge news. Kim Funding's land was born and raised in
Maynott. He covered Anita's case first for the local TV station and later for
the Minot Daily News. So it was monstrous news and the whole community was
mesmerized by the story and riveted to it. While some were riveted, Anita's
family and friends were frozen in place. Was this a scary time for you?
Definitely. For us living in Minot, what we think is a safe community and who
really cares if your doors are locked or not. from that day on, the doors were
definitely locked when it got to be dark. The shades were pulled. I felt like
for a long time, and I still am. I'm like very hyperware of like where I'm at,
who's around. People were worried. I mean, that it just got to where it was.
Meanwhile, investigators began piecing together a picture of what happened in
Anita's final moments. Looking through her phone, you saw some text messages
that caught your eye. Yeah, she had been texting Michael Van into the late
night, early morning hours of Sunday, June 3rd, and he appeared to be the last
one to have any sort of a conversation with her. Police wanted to talk to him
about that. Michael? You came down here, obviously. You heard the news about
what occurred. And you want to talk about it. You said it was a friend of yours.
Is that correct? 24 -year -old Michael Van had been a military brat his entire
life, but settled for a while in North Dakota.

--- Chunk 6 ---
told police that texting Anita late at night was nothing unusual. He worked at a
local Wendy's and their schedules really aligned. And while they regularly
texted, he told police it had been a while since he'd actually seen Anita. Anita
and Michael often ran into one another at a local downtown dance club, where he
said Anita never met a stranger. A few days after Anita's murder, Michael
visited Minot PD for a second interview. Police drilled down into his
relationship with her. Michael and Anita's texts in the early morning hours of
Sunday, June 3rd, ranged from the mundane? to the personal. Anita's final text
messages with Mike were just before 5am. She asked about his past relationships.
Anita wrote, how do you move on after being engaged twice? That's a huge life
-altering thing. He responded, you never move. You just become jaded. Hope that
you find someone who will love you for you. Investigators pressed Mike further.
Michael said he had been texting Anita from a friend's house and he stayed there
the rest of the night. Police told Michael he was free to go for now. Two days
after Anita's murder, the medical examiner released the autopsy report. Was
there any sexual assault? There was nothing that we could see that would
indicate that she was sexually assaulted. It was definitely something that we
were concerned about and it was on our minds. But the autopsy did reveal
something that peaked their interest. We found out that there was superficial
cuts or marks on Anita's neck. So it led us to believe that somebody is there
kind of in her face holding the knife to her neck and then an angry and then
that just escalated to the point of stabbing her. When you think about those
details, does that sound like? Possibly someone she knew, complete stranger. We
felt like it was somebody that she knew. And as my not police continued talking
to those close to Anita, they got a promising tip. We did have one witness come
forward and say that she saw somebody running early that morning. It was a man
running near Anita's apartment. He appeared to be in his late

--- Chunk 7 ---
It was their first big lead. Now they needed to find the running man. Maybe it's
running away from a crime scene. That's what she thought it could be. About two
days after Anita Knutzen's murder, police were chasing a new tip. A woman said
she saw a young, dark -haired man running right near Anita's apartment around
the time of the murder. And he looked like he was in a big hurry. So she's
thinking maybe it's not running out for exercise, maybe it's running away from a
crime scene. That's what she thought it could be. and it did generate some tips,
but none of them went anywhere. Back in Anita's hometown of Bute, her presence
was everywhere. And on one particular day, her friends honored her with a
brilliant burst of light in true Anita's style. There was an outpouring of love.
In Bute. Yeah. After Anita died. Yeah. leading up to the funeral. A lot of us
girls had gotten together and we made bracelets and pins and decorated main
streets with pink ribbons. I mean that it's such a close -knit community. It's
really amazing. All over town there's all these little pink ribbons tied up. You
could drive by and it wouldn't be weird to see like a pink bow tied to a like
post type of thing. When Anita's friend Lauren arrived from California, she was
blown away. I remember the entire town was pink, every storefront, car, light
post, everything had a pink bow on it. We will miss you Anita, written in pink
marker. Everywhere, everywhere you drove, there was just pink everywhere. Were
you surprised to see the whole town just painted pink for her? Yeah. I was from
Southern California so everybody doesn't know everybody. So coming out here and
just it's definitely a smaller town and everybody was affected out here just
because everybody knows each other. And on the day of the funeral, the entire
community gathered to say goodbye. What stands out to you the most about her
funeral? I think just how many people were there to celebrate my sister. I mean,
she truly was so well -loved. I mean, the whole church was full. They ended up
having to open up the gym at the school for all of the overflow people. And they
watched it, like, on a stream. Did you speak that day? I did, yeah. I got up
there and just said a few words about my sister and just talked about how just
effervescent she was and beautiful and perfect really. I think I wore one of
Anita's dresses to her funeral. To her funeral. Yeah. Was that a way of feeling
close to her? Yeah. Yeah. But in the midst of the grief, there were suspicions,
rumors about who could be involved in Anita's murder. At the time, did you
remember any whispers about who it could have been? Yeah, I mean tons of
whispers all the time. That's, you know, people never stop whispering. But yeah,
constant, you know, Nicole's name of course has always been never not been in
the mix. Police had also been hearing things about Anita's roommate Nicole. We
learned that they had kind of a poor relationship that there was some

--- Chunk 8 ---
the minor fights and some arguing between the two of them. They had roommate
drama. They did, yes. Police were there at the funeral, watching from their car
as mourners arrived. At the same time, they asked Nicole to come in for another
interview later that day. A move that may not have set well with her mother.
Anita's friends remember a painful exchange between Anita's mom and Nicole's.
And I overheard Nicole's mom asking her rather aggressively like how could you
think my daughter did this? I can't believe that this is the room we're going
around and paraphrasing, of course, because I can't remember the exact words,
but something to the effect of, you know, I can't believe that people are
blaming my daughter for this. This is all happening at the funeral. Yes, before
the actual funeral started, yep. I like turned around and like, it was just
wild. It was just, it was just wild behavior for an adult. But the dust settled
and the memorial moved on. And a very close friend took over Tyler Schmolz, the
young man on the scene that first night. He was now in the middle of Anita's
goodbye. We met a slideshow for her parents. What kind of pictures did you want
to pick of Anita? The problem was where she's dancing, where she's with friends
and family. Just her living in her life. He also took it upon himself to arrange
a send -off with pink balloons. Through it all, police wondered if the killer
was among the mourners, and they had some very particular questions for that
close friend, Tyler Schmolz. Three days after the funeral, Tyler found himself
once again, talking with police. Did you have anybody that you thought that you
suspected at the time? Back then, Tyler. Now they had the final answer. Or did
they? Nothing has more suspense than a date line mystery. And no one wants to
wait to find out what happens next. That's why everyone needs date line premium,
where listening is always ad -free. You get the whole story and nothing but the
story. or do you? Yes, actually. You do. Subscribe now on Apple Podcasts,
Spotify or datelinepremium .com. Mayor, will I be able to drop into multiplayer
gaming battles with low lag? The lag won't be an issue, but your questionable
skills, baby. And what if I have hundreds of devices on the Wi -Fi? Purely
hypothetical. Seems like a lot. But sure, hundreds of devices all booming
together with the Xfinity Gateway. Yes, friends and neighbors with Xfinity, the
Wi -Fi is booming. Restrictions apply. Everybody? On our own from the today's
show. Let's kickstart your wellness journey with the all new start today.
Everything you need for a healthier you all in one place. Fitness challenges for
all levels, meal plans that are easy and delicious, and so much more. It's built
to fit your lifestyle and our experts will guide you every step of the way. Come
on, let's do this. To subscribe, download Star Today from the App Store on your
Apple device now, terms of blind cancel anytime through Apple under profile
settings.

